---
layout: post
title:  "Using MathJax, Github Pages and Jekyll"
date:   2023-04-05 12:25:44 +0100
categories: mathjax, markdown
---

# How to use MathJax with Gihub Pages and Jekyll

Some themes are natively supported by by Github (such as the minima theme) but thesetheme files cannot be modified this way. Therefore we need to copy the files into the repository and modify them there.

- create a `_includes` directory. files added to to this folder in your repository will
prioritise the ones in the theme.

- create a file called `mathjax_support.html`. In this file add the following:
    ```html
        <script>
            MathJax = {
                tex: {
                    inlineMath: [['$', '$']]
                }
            };
        </script>
        <script type="text/javascript" id="MathJax-script" async
            src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js">
        </script>
    ```

- create a file called `custom-head.html`. In this file include the following:
    ```html
        {% if page.use_math %}  
        {% include mathjax_support.html %}  
        {% endif %}
    ```

-  Add the following line to the `_config.yml` file:
    ```yml
        kramdown:
        math_engine: mathjax
    ```

- To enable MathJax in a post, enable it like this `use_math: true` in the yml top matter.

# Using MathJax with GitHub Pages and Jekyll

This guide will show you how to use MathJax, a JavaScript library for rendering mathematical notation, with GitHub Pages and Jekyll. Jekyll is a static site generator that works well with GitHub Pages. We will guide you through the necessary steps to set up MathJax to work with a Jekyll theme on GitHub Pages.

Some themes are natively supported by GitHub, such as the minima theme. However, the files for these themes cannot be modified directly. To circumvent this, we will copy the necessary files into our repository and modify them there.

## 1. Creating the `_includes` Directory

Create an `_includes` directory in your repository. When Jekyll builds your site, it will prioritize files in your repository's `_includes` folder over the ones in the theme.

## 2. Adding MathJax Support

Next, create a file named `mathjax_support.html` inside the `_includes` directory. This file will hold the necessary MathJax configuration script. Paste the following HTML code into `mathjax_support.html`:

```html
    <script>
        MathJax = {
            tex: {
                inlineMath: [['$', '$']]
            }
        };
    </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" id="MathJax-script" async
        src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js">
    </script>
```

This script configures MathJax to recognize inline math between dollar signs (`$`), and loads the MathJax library from a Content Delivery Network (CDN).

## 3. Creating a Custom Header

Next, create a file named `custom-head.html` in the `_includes` directory. This file will include the MathJax script in pages where MathJax is required. Paste the following HTML code into `custom-head.html`:

```html
    {% if page.use_math %}  
    {% include mathjax_support.html %}  
    {% endif %}
```

This code checks if the `use_math` variable is set to `true` in the front matter of the page. If it is, then it includes the MathJax support script.

## 4. Configuring Jekyll to Use MathJax

Add the following lines to your `_config.yml` file:

```yml
    kramdown:
    math_engine: mathjax
```

This tells Jekyll's Markdown processor, Kramdown, to use MathJax as its math rendering engine.

## 5. Enabling MathJax in a Post

To enable MathJax in a post or page, add `use_math: true` to the YAML front matter at the top of the file. When `use_math` is set to `true`, the `custom-head.html` file includes the MathJax support script, enabling MathJax rendering in that post.

That's it! You should now be able to use MathJax in your GitHub Pages site with Jekyll.